## About Me

I am an applied machine learning (ML) and natural language processing (NLP) scientist/engineer at Moody's analytics. I graduated from Carnegie Mellon University with a Master's in Computer Engineering and a primary focus on machine learning. At a core level, I enjoy problem-solving and positively impacting the world. My motivation for pursuing machine learning stems from AI's potential to solve many fundamental problems and my interest in a probabilistic worldview. I love to find patterns in the data, extract relevant information, and draw meaningful inferences. This led to my primary interest in machine learning for NLP, as we are surrounded by a plethora of text data with many untapped potentials. 

My work at Moody's Analytics comprises applications of NLP in the areas of 1) Know Your Customer (KYC) - alerting risk-prone entities, 2) Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) - assess the ESG risk in the corporate world, and identify areas of improvement, 3) Commercial Real Estate (CRE) - analytical solutions to assist CRE market research and investment, and 4) Sales Recommendation - to grow Moody's Analytics business. I have developed ML-NLP models for entity matching, entity risk profiling, open information extraction, data enrichment pipelines, and recommendation systems. I am well-versed in named entity recognition, keyphrase extraction, text classification, text retrieval and ranking, duplicate detection, and zero-shot classification. I also focus on model governance and model explainability to ensure a more practical application of the models in the real world. 

As a part of my fascination for problem-solving, I also strive to find the most practical solution. I enjoy optimizing engineering solutions to efficiently deploy machine learning models. As part of it, I have worked on system architecture design, implementing ML-NLP pipelines, deploying microservices, and developing APIs. 

Outside work, I enjoy hiking, tennis, ping-pong, and working out. I am also one of the Pandemic-era piano beginners. 
